# Cyber-Horror Antagonist

| Designers | Implemented | GitHub Links |
|---|---|---|
| Dicerson (Writer/Designer) | :x: No | TBD |

Seeking Coder that actually knows how to code things (assuming the proposal is well-liked enough) and to help with specific numbers or refinements

## Overview

This proposal aims to add a new mid-round/primary antagonist type (similar in threat/scale to Changelings or Heretics) that fills a currently more or less vacant thematic niche (Cybernetic Horror/”Terminator”). It aims to fulfill this fantasy via multiple selectable kits/”Classes” which shape not just the tools but also the objectives of the antagonist. These can range from stealth/infiltration centric tools, to more aggressive/hostile tools.

## Background

This proposal is not made in response to any problematic game states, rather with the intent to fulfill a thematic niche that is not present - ie Cybernetic or Robotic solo antagonists. Funky currently has Replicators and the Colossus, but both are rare, neither are truly standalone, and Replicators (while very fun) are a major round-ending threat snowball type conversion antag (similar to blob) while Cyber-Horrors aim to be more long-term, softer, and “ling-like” in that they emphasize discreet objectives which do not necessarily end the round. It is also a purely sci-fi/robotic themed antag, unlike the colossus which ties into the themes of the Cosmic Cult (it being a robot is almost entirely irrelevant/secondary, it could be a ghost or spirit or even an organic creature and it would not really change its nature or function)

## Features to be added

 - New type of Antagonist which can be rolled alongside other antagonists (Traitors, Thieves, Heretics, Lings, etc.), as part of a mid-round antagonist roll, or as the primary antagonist of a game mode (likely with other mid-rounds joining them in smaller numbers either at the beginning or truly mid-round)
 - This antagonist will have 3 “Kits” it can choose from (flavor pending); each kit has its own goals and tools for pursuing them
 - Before selecting a kit, the antagonist exists at arrivals as an invisible camera point similar to the AI or Blob cameras
 - The first kit is the “Terminator” type kit, emphasizing stealth, subterfuge, and eventually aggression in order to assassinate targets that threaten its future existence/creation. It will have an ability to take on the appearance of any character that it has studied (requiring a doafter that can be done stealthily from any range and LoS, but which takes quite some time); it begins with the appearance of whichever character was selected when the antagonist was rolled. The only other tools it begins with are a distinct resistance to Heat and Brute damage (but weak to radiation, cold, and is EMP-able) and space/shock immunity. It always begins with one target, but once slain it “identifies” a new threat to its future existence/creation in the form of a random other crew member; each target becoming progressively more important/higher rank (it begins with civilian targets like assistant, boxer, librarian, etc.; then moves up to standard department roles; then a secoff; then a non-sec head of staff; and finally captain). Once it has killed the captain, its new goal becomes making it to CC to await its next assignment.
 - Examples of tools it could potentially unlock as it gains new targets; Toggleable super speed, the ability to “liquefy” through doors, grilles, or other obstacles with “gaps”, ability to “create” a liquid metal arm blade, invisibility, glasses-less Huds (med, sec, mesons, thermal, etc.), radio access to unauthorized channels, liquid omnitool
 - Special notes on combating it; Fire Extinguishers will deal a relatively small amount of cold damage and slow down this type significantly, it has no blood/does not bleed - which can be a giveaway, EMPs stun it similar to borgs

 - The second kit is a “Mechanical Horror” type, a mecha monstrosity obsessed with achieving “Perfection” through self-modification. This kit emphasizes aggressive and fast-moving play. Rather than posing as a crew member, like the Terminator kit, it instead poses as an arrivals cyborg with only 1 law: “Achieve Divinity”. It will have a button UI for selecting other lawsets, which do not actually constrain its behavior but will allow it to ‘feign’ having laws if it is asked or interrogated. It has no lawboard and cannot be relawed - only destroyed. It otherwise starts with the same model and modules as a normal borg, including the ability to “specialize”
 - This antag’s goal is achieved through dismantling other Borgs and using their parts to improve itself, stealing their modules and gaining special “points” it can spend to further unlock unique enhancements and upgrades similar to a Heretic’s knowledge points or a ling’s dna. It starts with 1 such point to select a final low-level tool it can utilize to achieve its first “kill”.
 - It can also gain power by “consuming” cyborg modules directly, Roboticists should keep a careful eye on their printer! It can also eat any module slotted into it, if it wants to aim for a more stealthy approach (or there are no other borgs on station); it can also, of course, eat positronic brains or filled MMIs
 - As it progresses, it eventually reaches a point of no return; its sprite changes to reflect its antagonistic nature and it gains a new goal of “Assimilating” the station’s AI Core and achieving Mechanical Godhood. Once it does so it becomes a wholly Digital being with godlike powers and can roam around the station doing whatever it wants for exactly 2 minutes before it ascends to a higher plane of being (with the round continuing on as normal afterwards)
 - Examples of things this type can unlock: EMP button (that it is immune to), powerful melee weapons, free and more powerful versions of borg modules (regardless of actual specialization), Hands, personal storage, reflective shield bubble, self-repairing nanobots, etc.
 - Notes on combating it; It can of course be outed if it is found to be ignoring obvious laws and someone ends up checking its actual lawset (though only those without a metashield would know what “Achieve Divinity” means). While immune to its own EMP, it is not immune to EMP in general (and becomes flash immune only after achieving its “horror” form). It also shares the same resistances (and weaknesses) as normal borgs.

 - The third and final kit is the one with the potential for round-ending destruction, and is the true “Cyber Horror” type kit. This kit starts as a normal crew member (an Assistant) at arrivals, but with a dangerous cybernetic “heart” replacing their organic one. This heart is an infection which slowly consumes their body and replaces it with eldritch mechanical replacements. The goal of the antagonist begins as Survive at all costs, with the knowledge that they can “slow” the infection by removing and replacing their own limbs before they become fully robotic. Since doing self-surgery is both silly and probably shouldn’t be possible, this is achieved by “spreading” the infection to other members of the crew by rendering them unconscious and performing a doafter which transfers the “corruption” to the crew member. This is, of course, untenable as such infected crewmembers will have to start doing the same lest they succumb. Eventually, someone will fail and become “fully” robotic - turning into a grotesque cybernetic monster of gangly limbs and mechanical constructions that shouldn’t work but somehow do. These monsters are powerful and hellbent on killing all organic life.
 - There are no points or progression to this antag, the individual has only whatever tools they can get ahold of until they eventually succumb, becoming a monster creature with a fixed kit
 - This kit consists of: A large health pool and resistance to all damage types, the only true weakness is to EMP-type effects which can stun the monster for a short period (long enough to hose it down and potentially kill it); deadly melee weapons that can rapidly eviscerate anything; and of course speed and the ability to destroy walls and pry doors.
 - Generally speaking, a single instance of this antag played perfectly can “infect” 2-3 other crew members throughout a shift and safely make it to CC without “turning”; though this is only with perfect timing/spacing between infections. More likely they’ll have to infect 4, maybe 5 others in order to survive a full 2 hour shift, and may run out of viable targets (especially as the ones they infect are themselves infecting others; and you can’t infect someone who is already infected).
 - If discovered, those without metashield will know that there is no cure; the individual must be killed and their body entirely destroyed lest it turn into a Horror (which of course the individual wants to avoid). The most common out would be going to medical for Surgery for any reason (med scanners don’t reveal the cybernetic corruption; only directly attempting to remove corrupted limbs or organs). But as the corruption progresses, the sprite’s skin will change color to reflect its progress and new metallic sheen - requiring more covering clothing (or more frequent infections) to fully hide.
 - This of course has major snowball/round-ending potential, if there end up being several infections or botched play; though it can also result in very little if the initial antag fails to secure infections for a long period early on (though this won’t stop sec from being paranoid about who it could be; since ordering “investigative” surgeries is turbo-illegal)

## Game Design Rationale

 - This Antagonist mostly fills a similar role to other current mid-rounds, being a dangerous, unpredictable source of chaos, confusion, and/or intrigue; intended to create paranoia or sheer terror in the crew through their pursuit of their ultimate aims.
 - Cybernetic or Robotic horrors fit very nicely into the general overarching sci-fi theme of any space based game setting, and ss14 is no different!
 - This antag has variable objectives depending on the kit that is selected, giving the player a choice between more subterfugey gameplay involving deceit and intrigue akin to lings, or more aggressive murder-y gameplay akin to heretics, or somewhere in-between. This is to add variability and spice to a round, especially when this antag is the primary and different players could each select different kits - creating chaos as sec has to try and organize an offensive against wildly different types of threats.

## Roundflow & Player interaction

 - This antagonist can be either roundstart or mid-round, and is intended to have a direct impact on gameplay for most of the crew at some point in its “growth”/progress towards its goals. Much like heretics or lings it starts off relatively slow, but unlike them has potential for progressing very quickly if played robustly (especially during already chaotic rounds)

## Administrative & Server Rule Impact (if applicable)

 - This antagonist is mostly limited by its objectives, and in some cases escalation rules; it can be a highly destructive antagonist - with one of the kits having an objective which will likely (though not necessarily) lead to station destruction.

# Technical Considerations

 - This is a fully new antagonist, not native to SS13 or other servers (to my knowledge; hope I didn’t reinvent the wheel!) and thus would require a significant amount of coding and spriting work to implement.
 - Worse still, it’s effectively 3 different antagonists in one; with the player that rolls it getting to choose which type they play in a given round.
